README.md, before:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This application is currently under development. A known issue exists where **a browser opens for every API call**.

# Bear MCP Server
[![Python Application](https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-bear/actions/workflows/python-app.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-bear/actions/workflows/python-app.yaml)
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/jkawamoto/mcp-bear)](https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-bear/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/@jkawamoto/mcp-bear)](https://smithery.ai/server/@jkawamoto/mcp-bear)


A MCP server for interacting with [Bear](https://bear.app/) note-taking software.

<a href="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/2gg54jdwwv"><img width="380" height="200" src="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/2gg54jdwwv/badge" alt="Bear Server MCP server" /></a>

## Installation

### Installing via Smithery

To install Bear MCP Server for Claude Desktop automatically via [Smithery](https://smithery.ai/server/@jkawamoto/mcp-bear):

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @jkawamoto/mcp-bear --client claude
```

### For Goose CLI
To enable the Bear extension in Goose CLI,
edit the configuration file `~/.config/goose/config.yaml` to include the following entry:

```yaml
extensions:
  bear:
    name: Bear
    cmd: uvx
    args: [--from, git+https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-bear, mcp-bear]
    envs: { "BEAR_API_TOKEN": "<YOUR_TOKEN>" }
    enabled: true
    type: stdio
```

### For Goose Desktop
Add a new extension with the following settings:

- **Type**: Standard IO
- **ID**: bear
- **Name**: Bear
- **Description**: Interacting with Bear note-taking software
- **Command**: `uvx --from git+https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-bear mcp-bear`
- **Environment Variables**: Add `BEAR_API_TOKEN` with your api token

For more details on configuring MCP servers in Goose Desktop,
refer to the documentation:
[Using Extensions - MCP Servers](https://block.github.io/goose/docs/getting-started/using-extensions#mcp-servers).


## Actions Implemented

The server supports the following actions.
Refer to Bear's [X-callback-url Scheme documentation](https://bear.app/faq/x-callback-url-scheme-documentation/) for details on each action.

- [x] /open-note
- [x] /create
- [ ] /add-text
- [ ] /add-file
- [x] /tags
- [x] /open-tag
- [ ] /rename-tag
- [ ] /delete-tag
- [ ] /trash
- [ ] /archive
- [ ] /untagged
- [x] /todo
- [x] /today
- [ ] /locked
- [x] /search
- [x] /grab-url

## License
This application is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

Commit message:

chore: update README with Claude Desktop config and restructure sections
The README now includes detailed instructions for configuring the server with Claude Desktop using `claude_desktop_config.json`. Additionally, the Smithery installation section has been restructured for better clarity and organization.

README.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This application is currently under development. A known issue exists where **a browser opens for every API call**.

# Bear MCP Server
[![Python Application](https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-bear/actions/workflows/python-app.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-bear/actions/workflows/python-app.yaml)
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/jkawamoto/mcp-bear)](https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-bear/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![smithery badge](https://smithery.ai/badge/@jkawamoto/mcp-bear)](https://smithery.ai/server/@jkawamoto/mcp-bear)

A MCP server for interacting with [Bear](https://bear.app/) note-taking software.

<a href="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/2gg54jdwwv"><img width="380" height="200" src="https://glama.ai/mcp/servers/2gg54jdwwv/badge" alt="Bear Server MCP server" /></a>

## Installation

### For Claude Desktop
To configure this server for Claude Desktop, edit the `claude_desktop_config.json` file with the following entry under
`mcpServers`:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "youtube-transcript": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": [
        "--from",
        "git+https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-bear",
        "mcp-bear",
        "--token",
        "<YOUR_TOKEN>"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```
After editing, restart the application.
For more information,
see: [For Claude Desktop Users - Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user).

### For Goose CLI
To enable the Bear extension in Goose CLI,
edit the configuration file `~/.config/goose/config.yaml` to include the following entry:

```yaml
extensions:
  bear:
    name: Bear
    cmd: uvx
    args: [--from, git+https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-bear, mcp-bear]
    envs: { "BEAR_API_TOKEN": "<YOUR_TOKEN>" }
    enabled: true
    type: stdio
```

### For Goose Desktop
Add a new extension with the following settings:

- **Type**: Standard IO
- **ID**: bear
- **Name**: Bear
- **Description**: Interacting with Bear note-taking software
- **Command**: `uvx --from git+https://github.com/jkawamoto/mcp-bear mcp-bear`
- **Environment Variables**: Add `BEAR_API_TOKEN` with your api token

For more details on configuring MCP servers in Goose Desktop,
refer to the documentation:
[Using Extensions - MCP Servers](https://block.github.io/goose/docs/getting-started/using-extensions#mcp-servers).

### Installing via Smithery
To install Bear MCP Server for Claude Desktop automatically via [Smithery](https://smithery.ai/server/@jkawamoto/mcp-bear):

```bash
npx -y @smithery/cli install @jkawamoto/mcp-bear --client claude
```

## Actions Implemented

The server supports the following actions.
Refer to Bear's [X-callback-url Scheme documentation](https://bear.app/faq/x-callback-url-scheme-documentation/) for details on each action.

- [x] /open-note
- [x] /create
- [ ] /add-text
- [ ] /add-file
- [x] /tags
- [x] /open-tag
- [ ] /rename-tag
- [ ] /delete-tag
- [ ] /trash
- [ ] /archive
- [ ] /untagged
- [x] /todo
- [x] /today
- [ ] /locked
- [x] /search
- [x] /grab-url

## License
This application is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.
